Hello and welcome back.
This lecture going to provide a solution to our previous challenge which implemented the chain of responsibility
pattern for like a logger in air handler.
Let's create a new project we're gonna call this our chain of responsibility solution create a template.
So this is gonna be a chain of responsibility
solution
first thing we're going to do is we're gonna create some helper classes so we're just going to create
a helper class called message and this is going to have an enum for our message priority called message
priority.
And this is going to have normal or high and then our class for our enum class message I should say
is going to have a string text that's going to have a message priority
and it's going to have a default constructor that sets the message priority.
And the message.
So something like this is just going to say text equals message and priority equals P.
Now that we ever helper classes on we're going to create the handler interface of the chain of responsibility.
This is just gonna be called our receiver interface
and this is gonna have our two important methods which is a boolean to process the message return a
boolean.
It's gonna take a message and it's gonna set the next chain
and it's gonna take a receiver interface for the next chain.
Then we need to also create another helper class for the first one in the chain.
So we're gonna we'll come back to this interface but because the concrete classes are gonna use this
let's see let's let's say new Java class.
Let's name this issue Razer
and this is gonna set the first one in the chain so we can just say public receiver interface set first
receiver
and then we're going to have our constructor for this set that member variable
we're just gonna say this dot set first receival equals first receiver and then our res message is gonna
do the setting of the first receiver for you.
So you can say public void rays
where his message taking a message and if that first receiver
is not equal the null then we're gonna process the message.
So we're gonna say set first receiver dot process message
and we're going to pass on the message and that will be our nice little helper class.
Now we can create the concrete classes and go back to our receiver interface.
Here we're gonna have two classes our facts air handler and our email air handler.
So this is gonna implement our receiver.
Remember we have to have a reference to the next the chain.
So we're going to have a private receiver interface.
Next receiver and then we're gonna have a method over add method for setting the next chain set next
receiver are actually set next chain.
And this is going to take a receiver interface.
Next receiver and all this is gonna do is it's going to set our next receiver this next receiver to
our next receiver and then the process message is gonna be really doing the bulk of the work it needs
to check if the message contains text for faxed.
And if it does then it's going to display some output saying it handled the message otherwise if it
doesn't contain facts it's gonna send it to the next one in the chain.
Because remember we don't want to go to the next chain if we've already processed it.
So we're gonna need to implement our boolean process message
right and we're gonna say if our message not text contains facts.
Print out the message priority
and the actual text
to make some corrections.
Else if the next receiver is equal to null not equal the null I should say.
Then you want to process the message to the next receiver which would be the email chain.
Now we need to implement the concrete handler for the email.
And again it can be very similar to the fax one that's gonna have the next reference the next receiver.
It's gonna be able to set the next chain the client will do that and it's going to check whether or
not the message contains text and so forth.
So we're gonna say receiver interface.
Couple corrections
to some syntax issues from my previous implementation of this I use different names I didn't like.
So text again you see it's pretty much the same implementation except it does it looks for a different
message in order to handle it
and it can't actually process it can call process next receiver but there is nothing next in the chain.
So now we need to implement our client let's go ahead and seek new client
and this will have a main method only
and there's some implementation taken out of this because we don't have to do a lot of the stuff we
did in the previous example where we we can just call a simple handler for raising an issue and that
will worry about creating the right objects.
So we're just going to print out a message first saying this is the chain of responsibility
and then we're going to make sure we make the chain we're going gonna be making the chain and what we
want to do here is we want to make sure that it's facts followed by email right.
So fax then email
so we're gonna create a receiver interface and we're gonna say that's a fax handler.
We're also going to create an email handler and then we're going to set specify the end of the chain
because the first one of the chain will be set through the issue Razr.
So we'll say first set the end of the chain and this will just be email handler.
Well we're gonna create the e-mail handler first say new email handler
and then remember fax handler is before email.
So we need to say fax handler equals new fax handler facts or a handler.
Then we're gonna set the next one for the fax handler to email under so we have to set the next chain
and that will be our email handler.
We had.
That's why we created above first because we needed to set it.
And then we're gonna basically say our starting point is gonna be our Razr will raise issues and set
the first handler.
So it will say issue razor
razor equals new issue razor and we're gonna say fax him that's gonna be the first one in the chain.
And now we need to create just some messages.
So we're gonna create a bunch of messages with different priorities something like that create for messages
some that contain faxes and contain email and those will be passed appropriately.
So now we need to raise a message for each one of these messages so we can just say raise or not raise
message on each one of these
so we'll do something like this raise or dot raise message and they all start with a lowercase
OK.
So now we can try to compile this and see that it won't correct one of the chain is actually processing
the messages we'll say build we have a small
fix in our process message needs to have a lowercase and lowercase boolean
copy and paste there is always good use.
Now let's try to run this in if we try to run the client we'll see that different messages are processed
by different objects in the chain fax our handler is the first one in the chain and it will handle facts
errors and it does next to messages or e-mail errors 300 by email error handlers in the chain.
And those are handled.
And then the last one is fax error handler.
So this is a solution to your challenge if you have any questions the Q and A please let me know.
Otherwise onto our next design pattern.
Thank you.